Tonight, we're in London with the dire warning from the White
House of an immediate threat of a Russian invasion in Ukraine
as President Biden sends 3,000 more US troops to the region.
With Russian troops amassing near the Ukraine border,
the White House today warning a Russian attack
could begin with an aerial bombing and missiles,
and that all transit by air, rail, and road
would be cut off.
The risk is now high enough and the threat is immediate enough.
It is the time to leave now.
Vaccines for young kids delayed.
The stunning news from Pfizer about its shot
for kids under 5.
Plus, how long the CDC says that booster shot protects you.
Breaking up the blockade after five days of traffic
halted at the busiest border crossing
between the US and Canada.
Why law enforcement can now be sent in to clear the traffic?
SWAT standoff.
Nine police officers hurt in Phoenix after a suspect
opens fire.
Olympics scandals.
Investigations over doping charges and sexual harassment
allegations overshadow the Beijing games.
Super Bowl countdown.
What to expect from the big game, the halftime
show, and those multimillion dollar commercials.
And it's Friday so we go on the road
with the 35-year-old musical tradition that
will bring a smile to your face and tears to your eyes.
This is the CBS Evening News with Norah O'Donnell,
reporting tonight from London.
Good evening to our viewers in the West,
and thank you for joining us from London
on this busy Friday night.
We're going to begin with ominous warnings from the Biden
administration that Russia has the troops in place to possibly
invade Ukraine at any time, and American citizens
should leave the country within the next 48 hours.
Other countries, including Britain,
are urging their citizens to do the same.
And as we come on the air, President Biden
is pressing to get on the phone with Russian President Vladimir
Putin soon in his ongoing attempts
to de-escalate the crisis, which sent shockwaves
through the financial markets today.
The Dow, NASDAQ, and S&P plummeted on fears of war.
Russia for months has been surrounding Ukraine
with troops saying it wants to enforce red lines to make sure
that its former Soviet neighbor doesn't join the NATO alliance.
Russia is now conducting massive military drills
with neighboring Belarus.
And also tonight, a brand new CBS News poll
finds a slight majority of Americans
would prefer the US stay out of negotiations
with Russia and Ukraine.
We have every angle of this crisis covered,
and CBS's Imtiaz Tyab is at the front lines in Ukraine.
But we begin with CBS's Nancy Cordes at the White House.
Good evening, Nancy.
Good evening, Norah.
And tonight, CBS News has learned
that the US has picked up new intelligence indicating
that Russian commanders have been told
to be ready for a possible invasion
by the 16th, that's just five days away.
Americans living in Ukraine got a blunt warning today,
there will be no US rescue operation if they get trapped.
White House officials call this a sign of escalation.
Video and satellite images showing more Russian troops
arriving at the Ukrainian border.
It prompted this video call today
between President Biden and a dozen other NATO leaders
as US officials urged all Americans in Ukraine
to depart now.
The president will not be putting the lives of our men
and women in uniform at risk by sending them into a war zone
to rescue people who could have left now but chose not to.
The State Department estimates there
are roughly 6,000 Americans living in Ukraine.
The US has begun pulling personnel
from its embassy in Kyiv.
What has changed over the past 24 or 48 hours
to lead to your new level of concern?
I'm not going to get into intelligence information,
but if you look at the disposition of forces
in both Belarus and in Russia, the Russians
are in a position to be able to mount a major military action
in Ukraine any day now.
A US official tells CBS News, Russia
has now arrayed nearly 80% of the forces
it needs to launch a full-scale invasion of Ukraine
with more troops enroute.
That's up from 70% just a week ago.
The first US military convoy reached neighboring Romania
this week as the Defense Secretary ordered 3,000 more
troops to head to Poland from Fort Bragg.
In an interview with NBC News, the president
was asked what circumstances would prompt him to send
troops to Ukraine itself.
They're not.
That's a world war when Americans and Russia
starts shooting at one another.
President Biden is slated to speak with Russian President
Vladimir Putin again by phone tomorrow morning.
White House officials tell us that Putin
had wanted to wait until Monday, but the White House want out.
Norah.
Nancy Cordes at the White House, thank you.
Today, Secretary of State Antony Blinken
said that Russia could invade at any time,
including during the Olympics.
And the US official tells CBS News
that those Russian military exercises in the Black Sea
this weekend could serve as a rolling start to the invasion.
We get the latest from CBS's Imtiaz Tyab
on the ground in Ukraine.
Day and night, these Ukrainian border patrolmen
monitor the northern front.
It's a no man's land, a narrow sliver of territory
that separates Ukraine and Belarus,
and is less than an hour's drive from Russia's
military exercises.
It's almost eerily quiet here, but make no mistake,
this is perhaps one of the most tense borders in the world.
Commander Margarita Vercimina is the woman in charge.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
She says, "we'll use everything we
have to keep our borders safe."
But how Ukrainian forces will defend themselves against this
is anyone's guess.
The fear now is Russia's massive military drills
in Belarus could soon become a horrifying reality,
with the State Department warning
too few Americans are heeding President Biden's advice
to leave Ukraine.
Brian Best, a California native who
lives in Kyiv with his Ukrainian wife and two children
says he has a lot to consider.
Will you stay?
I will stay, yeah, because this is my home
but I suppose if Russia did occupy Ukraine, that
would be my time to leave.
Tonight, Russia is denying it has any plans to invade
and is accusing the West of spreading lies
as the people of Ukraine braced for what could be all out war.
Norah.
Imtiaz Tyab, thank you.
We want to turn now to the pandemic
and what is sure to be a major disappointment for millions
of families with small children.
FDA advisors have put the brakes on their push
to speed Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine for children ages 6
months to 4 years.
The agency said they needed more data
before giving the green light.
CBS's Nikki Battiste reports.
Tonight, parents of children under 5
will have to wait even longer for them
to be vaccinated against COVID.
Pfizer says it needs more time to submit its FDA application
for two-dose regimen and will wait
to get a complete picture with its data on a third shot.
Dr. Peter Hotez is a vaccine expert
at Texas Children's Hospital.
Some people see this as a sign there's trouble.
I see this as a sign that our regulators are on top of this.
Only 23% of kids ages 5 to 11 in the US are fully-vaccinated,
and nearly 57% of 12 to 17-year-olds
have had at least two doses.
Today, the CDC reported that the effectiveness
of booster shots in preventing hospitalizations and emergency
room visits due to Omicron may decline over time.
From around 90%, two months after the booster,
which is great versus now 60% to 70% after four or five months.
And so the question is, will this continue to decline?
As many states drop public mask mandates,
the debate over masks in classrooms is heating up.
Oh my god.
This father in upstate New York was forcibly
dragged out of a school board meeting
for refusing to put on a mask.
And Georgia's governor is introducing
a bill that allows parents, not school districts or states,
to decide if their child should be masked in class.
Nobody seems to be following the data and the science anymore.
They're following the politics.
Pfizer says it expects to have data on a three-dose vaccine
regimen for children under 5 in early April.
In the meantime, the FDA says family members
should be vaccinated and wear masks to help
protect unvaccinated kids.
Norah.
Nikki Battiste with that news, thank you.
And now to some breaking news on that so-called Freedom Convoy.
A Canadian judge tonight ordering the protesters
at the Ambassador Bridge to end their five-day blockade.
It's not clear if or when law enforcement will be sent in
to remove the demonstrators.
CBS's Kris Van Cleave reports from Detroit
on the growing economic impact and the threat
of similar protests in other US cities.
Tonight, the five-day Canadian border blockade
protesting vaccine mandates is hitting the automakers,
costing Michigan workers millions in lost wages
and prompting President Biden to raise his concerns with Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau.
This effort has the potential to have a huge impact on workers
and the American public.
Supply shortages are already forcing production disruptions
at auto plants in Canada and several states.
The supply chain breakdown has flooded Paul Russo's Detroit
area warehouse.
These are for automakers?
That is correct.
Can't make cars without it?
That's correct.
Yeah, without this material, you're not making a car.
He's got 5 million tons of steel and aluminum
that should have been delivered across the closed Ambassador
Bridge to Canadian auto plants.
How frustrating is this for you as a business-owner?
I'm throwing my hands up and say, guys, I can't do nothing.
I can't control the border.
And it's all costing you money.
It's costing us big dollars.
For automakers, the bridge closure
is costing them about $700 million and counting.
Some are chartering cargo planes to fly parts across the border
and major facilities could be shut down
if the blockade drags on.
Those shutdowns are just going to be catastrophic.
Pressure is mounting on the Canadian government
who today declared a state of emergency over the blockade.
This unlawful activity has to end and it will end.
There's also growing evidence the protest effort may
be largely funded by Americans.
A GoFundMe page that raised millions
for the Canadian protesters was shut down last week.
The judge told protesters they have to be out tonight,
but we are hearing now reports of a potential trucker protest
in the US this weekend, headed for a border crossing
near Buffalo.
Norah.
Kris Van Cleave, thanks.
Scandals at the Winter Olympics are overshadowing the games.
The Russian doping controversy is still ongoing.
And now, two members of the US snowboard team
are under investigation for alleged sexual misconduct
and racist behavior.
CBS's Jamie Yuccas is in Beijing with the details.
The international testing agency has
confirmed a sample taken last December from Star Russian
figure skater Kamila Valieva came back positive for a banned
performance-enhancing heart drug.
Earlier this week, the Russian Anti-doping Agency immediately
suspended Valieva but then reversed the decision
and cleared her to practice for next week's
individual competition.
The Russians had just captured first place,
ahead of the Americans in Monday's team event.
Now, the IOC and the World Anti-doping Association
are appealing to re-impose that suspension,
an emergency hearing to determine Valieva's fate
which could ultimately determine the official winners
of the team event is expected any day.
We hope that the whole issue can be
expedited in the interests of every athlete.
The US ski and snowboarding team is
saying it's investigating a former team member's
allegations of racism against her then teammate
and sexual harassment dating back years
by current coach, Peter Foley, which he has since denied.
Shaun White's final competition--
As for the games, Shaun White's legendary 20-year career
came to a bittersweet end in the half-pipe.
Oh, and clipped the wall.
He finished without a medal, but proud as his fellow
athletes paid tribute.
There's the cheer of the crowd and some kind
words from my fellow competitors at the bottom and I'm so happy.
Mikaela Shiffrin, one of the US's top medal contenders
in skiing has had three heartbreaking runs
where she either did not finish or she missed the podium.
These were in what were considered her best events.
It is now up to her whether she wants to enter her two
remaining events.
Norah.
Jamie Yuccas, thank you.
From the snow and ice of the Olympics
to the gridiron of the Super Bowl,
the big game is just days away and the final preparations
are being put in place for the teams, the halftime
show and the high profile commercials.
CBS's Carter Evans reports from Los Angeles.
Just before kickoff on Super Bowl
Sunday, the skies above so far will come along.
America's fastest fighter jets will do a flyover
during the National Anthem to honor the US Air Force.
And we got a preview from inside the cockpit.
That takeoff is just so powerful.
On the ground, emotions are sky high from both the Rams
and the Bengals.
This is an exciting moment.
Everybody thinks about it forever.
There's a lot of good positive juice.
I mean, everybody's excited about this.
But it's not just a game.
Lays.
Do you have barbecue?
Or cheddar jalapeno?
This year, a 30-second commercial during the game
sells for a record $7 million.
You can expect the return of the Clydesdales, a Super Bowl
staple.
For the first time ever, the halftime show is all hip-hop.
We're going to open more doors for hip-hop artists
in the future.
But a new controversy as Snoop Dogg
was sued this week by a woman who claims he sexually
assaulted her in 2013.
Snoop Dogg has not responded directly to the lawsuit.
All the excitement inside the stadium
may have to wait for the more than 70,000 fans who
first have to prove they're vaccinated or COVID negative.
We're following the county guidelines
which are two-shot vaccination or negative tests.
We will have some testing available on site, though.
As a last resort before you turn someone away?
That is the last resort, correct.
Now, as out-of-town fans begin to arrive here in LA,
they may be shocked at how hot it is here.
We are under a winter heat advisory right now.
Temperatures could be close to 90 degrees by kickoff.
If that happens, it would set a record for the Super Bowl.
Norah.
That is hot.
Carter Evans, thank you.
Well, still ahead on tonight's CBS Evening News,
a deadly standoff in Phoenix.
Nine police officers hit in a barrage of gunfire.
And the new space telescope posted its first selfie
a million miles from home.
Nine police officers in Phoenix were hit in a hail of bullets
when a gunman ambushed them today.
Five officers were shot and four wounded
by shrapnel or ricocheting bullets.
All are expected to survive.
Police ordered another person in the house
to bring out a baby who was inside.
Police later found the gunman dead and injured woman
later died at the hospital.
The baby was not hurt.
And tonight, a look at the first selfie
shot by the James Webb Space Telescope.
It shows the Observatory's 21-foot wide primary mirror
as it orbits the sun a million miles from Earth.
Another image shows a mosaic of multiple blurry images
of a star which may not look like much now,
but that star is being used to align the 18 segments that make
up the telescope's main mirror.
All right.
On the Road is next with the musical tradition
you have to hear and see to believe.
If you can't watch the CBS Evening News, you can listen.
Subscribe wherever you get your podcasts.
Sponsored by Crest.
For this week's On The Road, CBS's Steve Hartman
checks into a hotel with quite the view but even better
acoustics.
Every year, 600 of the best high school singers
from across Kentucky gather to practice and perform
in Louisville's Convention Center.
And all these booming voices have to stay somewhere.
It can get a little noisy.
For that reason, the Hyatt Regency offers earplugs,
knowing a gross violation of the quiet hours is not only likely,
it's a 35-year tradition.
Back in 1987, late one night, a small group
of kids still wired from practice
gathered along the balcony here.
Everybody's chatting away, waving hi to each other.
Choir Director Brett Burton was a student at the time.
There's just certain things that happen in the life that
leave a memory on you.
And this is one of them?
It was just something amazing.
Today, the same wonder unfolds in much the same way.
The waving, the ruckus, and then out of nowhere, the hum.
Someone sings a pitch.
It can be anyone from anywhere.
Once one person starts, everyone wants to be a part of it.
And eventually, the entire hotel catches on.
And then you're singing the National Anthem.
Some say it's the acoustics.
Others the sheer volume of talent.
But whatever the reason, one thing
is clear, whoever opted for the earplugs made a grave mistake.
It's like a cylinder of sound.
It's all around you.
So surreal.
It's--
And it's completely organic.
There's no planning or adult direction.
This is all kids from all walks of life
who every year make it a priority
to fill this hotel atrium with a riveting reminder
that we are not a nation of soloists,
but a chorus of shared values that when
joined together resonate like nothing
the world has ever heard.
Steve Hartman On The Road in Louisville, Kentucky.
I don't know about you, but I needed that tonight.
And to hear the anthem in its entirety,
you can go to our Twitter, Facebook, or Instagram
@CBSEveningNews, and we'll be right back.
Tonight's On The Road segment is sponsored by Geico.
Switch today and see all the ways you could save.
Sunday on Face the Nation, Margaret's guests
include White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan.
And that's tonight's CBS Evening News
with thanks to our London Bureau.
I'm Norah O'Donnell.
Have a great weekend.